and they're off the nile crocodile
easily outswims the hippo
they're swimming upstream against a
heavy current but the crocs body is
built for swimming through rough water
it weighs as much as two refrigerator
freezers and is thought to be the
heaviest reptile on earth
it can swim up to 22 miles per hour the
hippo can't swim
not really it just walks on the bottom
of the river and pushes off from any big
rocket vines
it can close its nostrils whenever it
wants to be able to glide a bit through
the water
but it's no match for the croc the croc
reaches the shore and starts running
through a field
but better make way the hippos catching
up it's speeding across the flat terrain
even though it's huge the hippo can out
sprint a human
the croc was miles ahead but the hippo's
faster on foot
the hippo breaks through the ribbon it's
all over
beep beep hey there road runner what
you're running from
wait hold everything that coyote is
catching up fast
he's right on your tail the greater road
runner can run up to 20 miles per hour
even faster when it's really hungry
despite what you see in cartoons
a coyote is actually twice as fast as a
roadrunner
but the cartoon version is way funnier
in lane one from the dense jungles of
south america
the everslow sloth and right underneath
him in lane two
we have a typical garden snail and
the race is
on for the slowest animal on earth
with the sloth's top speed clocking in
at 0.2 miles per hour
it's no wonder they call it a giant
moving pillow
well i call them that the snail is off
to a good start
it can cover a small neighborhood in
about an hour
this boneless creature has only one foot
which is covered in protective slime
it's too blurry to see but i think the
sloth is
still in the same spot and now it's
asleep
it'll probably be asleep through the
whole race a sloth can snooze it up for
15 hours a day
it's asleep for more than half of its
life and look
the snail got out of that sunny patch
next up
a shady patch it's too close to call
we'll have to wait till the swath wakes
up to get back to this race
a grizzly bear can easily outrun a human
if you're at a picnic and you cook up
something a little too yummy
better leave your lunch behind the
fastest a human can sprint is 28 miles
per hour
set of course by usain bolt so he'd
probably be able to run away in time
if you're slower than him which you are
then you're in trouble
in a one-on-one sprint between a human
and a grizzly bear
you're gonna be the bear's lunch every
time but out of all the bears
which one's the fastest polar bears
grizzly bears
brown bears sun bears and the cute
cuddly panda bear
on your marks get set go
the tension is palpable the grizzly and
the brown bear are clawed a claw
a brown bear can easily run as fast as a
grizzly the sun bear is the smallest
bear in the race
it's about six feet long or tall or
whatever
it just can't keep up the polar bear got
off to a great start
but it just doesn't have the speed of
the grizzly or brown bear
grizzly takes the lean no it's the brown
bear
now grizzly wait where's panda what's it
doing
i don't think it knows it's a race but
isn't it cute
it just finished its third bamboo stick
a panda bear can eat up to 28 pounds of
bamboo a day
that's like a lot but it's off
it found its shortcut and is rolling
down that hill
it zooms past the grizzly and the brown
bear it's all over
panda wins sorry bears we all know that
the panda isn't exactly fast
it's actually one of the slowest bears
still if you see a panda rolling down
the hill in your direction
run a boeing 747
has a top speed of around 620 miles per
hour
the fastest bird is the gray-headed
albatross
it can fly up to 80 miles per hour and
stay up there for 10
hours without landing the peregrine
falcon is faster
but only when it's diving straight down
to grab some takeout
watch out vision wow big planes take a
long time to get up in the air
but the albatross it's up and off in a
few seconds
it's in the lead but a few minutes later
back to slo-mo ville the sloths away
that's good
but so far it's only managed to lift its
arm to reach that tree branch
the garden snail still trying to get
past that big rock
sloths spend a lot of their time as
motionless as possible
so that they don't become someone else's
breakfast
not great training for a race but hold
on
player 3 has entered the race it's the
galapagos tortoise
its powerful front legs carry this tank
of an animal
it's a whopping four times faster than a
garden snail
this just got interesting we got
ourselves the race
that'll last a century the tortoise is
running and dodging every obstacle
nothing can stop it hey no cheating
sloth
don't be dropping tree branches from up
there deep
underground a mole's busy burrowing
around
a mole can eat as many earthworms as his
own body weight
and can dig around 15 feet per hour the
american badger is the fastest digging
animal in the world
and is surprisingly fast on land it can
almost match the speed of a human
on a good day head to head the american
badger wins the tunnel race pretty
easily
too bad the mall can't see where it's
going moles aren't really blind
they just have terrible eyesight and
they're color-blind
and they can't wear glasses down there
ah
the proud cheetah it's sprinting across
the savannah at
warp speed i've been the fastest land
mammal for millions of years i've got
this
the fastest cheeto on record was a
sprinter named sarah
when she was 11 she ran 100 meters in
under 6 seconds
a cheetah can run up to 80 miles per
hour if it sees something tasty
sarah was raised in an american zoo and
was one of the first cheetahs to have a
puppy buddy when she was growing up
alexa and sarah friends forever but
soaring above sarah is a humble little
bat
and that bad is making sarah look slow
the brazilian free-tailed bat can hit
100 miles per hour it's the fastest
mammal on the planet
now time for some shrinking first of the
blocks is the australian tiger beetle
it charges forward at six miles per hour
they may not seem like much
but relative to its size it's lightning
fast
there's like a human running alongside a
high-speed train
running in the inside lane is the
saharan silver end
ants are team players and are strongest
when they're working together
but even one ant can be amazingly strong
an ant can lift hundreds of times its
own weight and can sprint like there's
no tomorrow
crusade bull can hit four strides per
second this silver ant does
50. scientists even discovered that
these little ants like to gallop once
they reach their
top speed our last contender the fastest
animal on earth
it's none other than this tiny mite it's
only the size of a sesame seed
if we go by body length per second this
microscopic
animal outruns everything else on the
planet it's believed to run
almost twice as fast as the tiger beetle
and if it were human size
it would run faster than the speed of
sound um
let's get back to the crawlers they
finished yet the tortoise is in the lead
the snail finally got past that large
rock and the sloth is on its way to
branch number two
the tortoise is three feet away from the
finish line
wow i just can't take much more of this
excitement but
i think i have time for a latte